Okay.
Hello, folks.
I am absolutely exhausted.
Um,
I went and got a haircut. I went for a
little run. I got some food.
Here's the plan.
I'm going to stream for an hour and a
half, maybe two hours. I'm going to take
an hour or two off to relax a bit. And
I'm on all day tomorrow.
But all I want to do right now is
I want to get most of the LLM heavy crap
out of the way if I can because I really
really want to get to the point where
I'm just manually cleaning stuff up and
like actually producing something that
is made for humans and not for stupid
LLMs.
To do that it's going to require waiting
through a bit more sewage though.
I think that
let's fix
here. This is what we're going to do.
there there.
Three tests need to be updated. The MS
speed one, the profile one.
Uh actually only two tests. Yeah, the MS
speed one and the profile one. And then
we got to port a bunch of files over.
Realistically, all this requires me to
do is make sure that this thing doesn't
make a mess in the process.
And
I think the only other major things that
are going to still need the LLM are we
have a couple places where there are
redundant versions of things because we
don't know which one is going to be
selected. So like stripping out all the
redundant stuff once we make that
decision. And then after that, hopefully
the code will be nice and succinct
enough that I can just start going
through by hand and like removing all
the crap.
Hey, Pepe.
I'm not saying I'm not going to use it
at all, but I definitely don't want to
use it anywhere near as much as I've
been using it for this. This is awful.
I don't think it slowed me down, man. I
actually think that I did do stuff
faster, but I [__] hate this work.
It's awful.
It's just a massive amount of stuff for
Puffer 4 that like there's not really a
way around it because of the way the
torch works.
2 mil.
Way better, man. That's way better.
Statically linked.
Very nice.
Oh, I See
that's fine. It can do that.
Just coding the um the end name in
Nice.
I want to see how much code we've ended
up with process of doing this crap.
Oh yeah, I wonder if we also have um any
word from Jonah
on Discord.
See?
Oh, I do have a couple messages from
him.
Let's see what we have here.
Fallbacks.
Yeah. So, we're definitely going to just
end up merging the two tests, I'd say,
or fully separating one or the other.
Weird. No big deal.
Well, this is doing this. I shouldn't
just be like lounging. Let me think
about
do we want two tests or one test?
It's static linked now, right?
So substantially easier than before.
Ah, we may as well just have one test,
I'd think.
If I can get it to compile reasonably
fast, I'd say,
which I probably can.
Yeah,
because it's it's static link torch,
right?
So that should then mean um if we don't
change torch
Probably we can do faster without it.
Should check that.
That'd be nice.
learning, right?
This is funny.
Something for cyclic learning, right?
Cosign and nailing. Yep. Already done
for you. If you've thought of it and
it's a good idea, it probably exists.
static.
Yeah.
Do you use
probably we can clean this up a lot. I
have very few brain cells remaining for
the day.
I think instead of trying to like think
about how to clean this up, I think
that'll be part of tomorrow. I think we
just get all the other M's ported over.
That's like fully automatic super brain
dead. I just have to make sure it
doesn't screw up.
Let's fix this first.
I mean, what can I say? I've streamed um
19 hours in the last two days. So with
with this trim we'll make it 20 or 21
hours.
Tomorrow I will be refreshed
cuz instead like last night I literally
I just like went to sleep, woke up 7
hours later and immediately started
streaming. I'm going to get a little bit
better rest today.
Uh, this also takes forever to compile.
Not acceptable.
arms go away. So,
it wasn't like a go away type of a
problem.
It's just the way that we're doing
CUDAs.
It's very memory intensive
and it's not really a problem because of
the way that most of our stuff is set up
normally. like there's plenty of memory
for this. Uh but that architecture
specifically was doing some crazy
things. So it's fine for now. I added a
kernel. We might have to do more later.
There's technically a way around it, but
the
like to really fully fix that error,
it's or to like fix that the way it
should be fixed, we just have to delete
torch.
Like torch is just bad. There's no way
around it.
Oh, that's Peru.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's kind of bad
solving. So the only way to solve it is
like you say doing static everything.
Um but you you pretty much have to
delete torch at that point because we're
graphing stuff. So you have to
pre-allocate all the activation buffers
but you actually have to pre-allocate
different activation buffers for each
graph
which is num buffers of them. So I you
really just have to get rid of torch
pretty much like either that you make a
total disaster of the code. I spent a
couple hours on it and there's just no
clean way to do it without like
replacing torch.
I mean, if you want to come up with a a
nice way to do this in puffer such that
we can essentially ship a thesis torch
and um just like bind the very very last
bit of it to torch. That would be
awesome.
I Let me clean this up a little bit and
then I'll sort of start showing you some
of the stuff I've been doing.
We are at 12.5.
I did manage to do one other cool
optimization that got us a couple
hundred thousand SPS today. Take a look
at this. I'm pretty proud of this.
This is cuz this was just kind of
clever.
Where's the init?
Is it mu1.h?
Okay. Yeah. Look at this.
When you make muon, we go through all of
the weights. We go through all the
parameters in your network.
and we replace them with ones that have
been allocated in contiguous memory.
And this just works with any network as
like as an optimizer without having to
do anything. And then boom, you get to
vectorize the update.
Isn't that cool?
So, I got to do one cool thing today.
You can't vectorize the gradients. If
you could vectorize the gradients, it
would be even better, but just
vectorizing the weights is already
pretty cool.
I can't let you have all of the fun,
right?
Yeah.
Well, it's not your fault you don't
understand the training loop. The code
sucks because of all this torch crap.
We also went uh we went to static
linking for the environments because I
just didn't want to deal with like there
was some slowdown in shared libraries
and I just didn't want to deal with it
and I thought like the shared libraries
are a pain in the ass anyways. Let's
just do everything static linked and we
won't have to think about it. So I did
that. I have to port the rest of the
environment but literally Claude can do
that. It's trivial. It's just like
update API.
Yeah, that's wrong.
parody with puffer three
changes to M's.
But you rip out the entire network
stack, don't you?
to be fair
mirrors the LSTM 1:1 well then we'll
definitely want your LSTM implementation
if you have faster LSTM
you know we can have that as a backend
option
for evalu H
well the problem with LSTMs comes in
training right eval fine. LSTM is a
perfectly serviceable architecture for
eval
huge delta between
they don't have formal education.
So, here's the thing with Sutton and
Bardo. Um, it's a bunch of like formal
background.
This stuff doesn't actually work
here. Look. Uh, for reference, I've
never read this full book. I've read
sections of it
and it like I wouldn't even say that
reading sections of this were a major
part of of like my background.
Uh, it's mostly from papers I've read.
So okay look anything tabular dated like
irrelevant okay finite MTPs
there no algorithms in here there's just
like a bunch of theory about policies
and value functions dynamic programming
dated Monte Carlo this is search
irrelevant TD relevant stuff but the
actual algorithms introduced are like
not actually usable
uh endstep bootstrapping like these are
sections so bits of this are used in
what I use but that's about it planning
and learning with tabular irrelevant
uh let's see
this is all irrelevant here yeah this is
all irrelevant here
on policy control and stuff yeah
irrelevant
like eligibility so there's some stuff
in here that's like
used sometimes but unless you're doing
pure algorithm research no
okay policy gradient they actually they
stop before
it becomes useful so this is the basis
of stuff but like they don't actually
get to the usable methods
uh this is just a weird section
and that's it there's nothing else in
here so like
you know you had 400 pages, 500 pages,
and by the end of this, you can't do RL.
That's the problem.
I I mean, if you want like most of it,
if you want most of it, like
just understanding PO is the vast
majority of what we have. So what we
have is we have PO, we have a slightly
better advantage function, we have um uh
we have this like prioritize sampling
thing on policy prioritize sampling that
we came up with that's based on the
gigaflow paper. Uh we have a better
optimizer in muon
and I believe we have one other small
trick but it's pretty close to po
papers instead. Yeah, papers. If you
want to actually do algorithm work and
get deep into the algorithm side, there
are sections of the Sutton embaro book
that you should definitely read.
But if you're trying to like learn stuff
quickly to be able to actually make RL
work on problems and then fill in
knowledge as you go, like my article
plus projects plus some papers and then
eventually come back to read some
sections of formal like sutard is good.
And you don't just read random papers
either. Read the ones I suggested
because most papers are just wrong.
All right?
Like most of the papers in the field are
wrong.
For instance, um, in exploration as a
whole, there are
one and a half good papers in all of
exploration.
You're writing well since you have the
lowle background. Yes, that's exactly
what you should do.
I'm actually really hoping um that we
can even drop the prioritize sampling
once we have state set base exploration
which is puffer 5
because the sampling in uh the sampling
that we do in training actually slows
stuff down quite a
So exploration is this entire not well
definfined area of RL where it's like ah
RL doesn't explore well we should do
algorithms but then they don't actually
define the problem and most of the
papers in this are both wrong and
misguided and not even solving a useful
problem.
Um,
plan for puffer 5. The one actually good
paper is go explore which is a very very
stupid algorithm like you can't use the
algorithm directly but I think the core
idea is good if you are willing to build
all your simulators with state set
capabilities.
What is this paper?
Yeah, this one.
I actually don't like the followup to
this one as much. It's a very very
simple paper.
Like you can't even use the core of it
because this whole cell representation
thing is completely intractable, right?
Like you can't solve that. Um but I
don't think you need to. We have some
ideas on what to do about this.
basian I haven't
useful for hyperparameter tuning like
delium processes it's nice for low dim
optimization
with like really spark data I don't know
why you'd like look at this for general
RL it's really just for hyperparame
tuning
But I mean I'm also a Palestine who
doesn't understand probability. So
thing
this is not including correctly.
Name space, right?
We're sampling. Sampling what?
The only thing you sample are actions,
right?
damage.
Weird bounce
sampling training batches. Oh.
I think we just do multinnomial over
advantage right now, man.
Uh Danny, so we do use we use Gaussian
processes for hyperparameter tuning
because it's like a lowdimensional but
very data constrained space and
everything else I've tried does not work
anywhere near as well.
The fact that this test is 2,000 lines
is disgusting.
longer actually.
Oh, Tim, look at this. Tim's got so
bomb.
Oh, launch function dated.
Dang. Launch function is dated.
Yeah, function is dated.
Compiles way too slow as well.
computer vision.
I only ever re I only ever recommend
that people who want to do a PhD do a
PhD. I never try to convince somebody to
do a PhD.
Like you do a PhD because you're damn
sure you want to do a PhD and that's it,
right?
Hey, we get our profile back.
Nice.
That's important.
This file is way too long,
but I am out of brain for thinking about
it today.
Okay, this still runs
12 mode plus
the breakout end, right?
Hey, this runs.
Let me just make sure it's actually
compiling.
It's compiling. Good.
That's
an end.
I think this is just not getting used.
Yeah, this is dated.
Oh well, this is actually already
correct is the thing.
I done here.
Mhm.
It's fasted.
I like it that way, man.
I actually I hate that I have this
stupid claw window here.
I'm thinking once I get this project
into a better spot. Um because I have
all this torch mess to clean up, it's
going to be way more human editable. And
I think I'm just going to ditch clog for
the most part. I might use it once in a
while, but it's not going to be here
like is know half my screen what I'm
typing in half the time.
It just does so much stupid stuff. It's
like I I cannot be bothered following
just twisted crap all day for the sake
of saving typing.
If I could get like an extension that
lives in my like in Vim where I can just
like, you know, type a comment at a
specific spot, that might be nice.
integrates
it in line.
Yeah, but you don't need it to be it. I
don't need an IDE in order to have a
plugin.
I used VS Code for like a year. I was
very happy leaving it.
I was like, "Oh, wow. I actually kind of
enjoy programming again. Yay."
I got to the point where I had VS Code
like I just disabled all the visual
stuff. So, it was just like a onesreen
editor. I was like, why the hell am I
even doing this? Just use Vim. The only
reason I was ever doing it was for the
container plugin before I had Puffer set
up to just like do the containers nicely
for
Yeah, at least you didn't grow up with
like net beans or eclipse, man.
I
you have my sympathies if you do
enterprise C++. Plus+
the fact that you see me writing any C++
here, this is not by choice. I would
very much like to just be writing C.
Mhm.
You know what? I think we'll just leave
this. We'll leave it like this for now.
We can always do it in passes, right?
be way easier.
going to do a port script.
Good.
Yeah, now it'll just do it.
It's nice.
Yeah, this is super nice. Almost no
changes required.
Yep.
Super easy porting.
Nice.
lots and lots and lots of stupid ports.
Yeah, it should not mess any up. This is
like
complete unambiguous tensor uh template
matching.
act type will just be double for
everything. I'm sure
recorded this
worked with Ratford. I didn't work with
him directly. I got to speak with him. I
got to hear uh main left with him a
couple of times with just like the main
group. He was an awesome guy.
Radford's great.
Really, really great guy. I don't think
anybody has like anything bad to say
about Radford as a person. And I mean,
he's a great scientist. He's not an
engineer by any means. Great scientist
though.
Um,
Yeah, I saw that briefly. Um, it looks
like he was advising a pretty basic
project. Maybe a student project. I
don't know.
I mean, it looked like a simple, well
done idea, but
I like I don't know if he said he said
anything about it.
He posted on X. Really?
Yeah. I hope he's doing okay.
This is 2018.
Oh, he didn't post. He just reposted it.
Oh god.
see the end of binding.
Oops.
No, it has it.
push BF-16. Oh,
that's a nice present. I've been waiting
for that.
Oh, hey guys. Do you see 5K?
We'll wait to post until it's actually
5K because it's rounding up. 50 more
star, guys. It's 50 more stars. Come on.
Feed the puffer a star, please. Just go
do it. It's free. It helps my work.
Exponentially puffing.
I'm gonna have to do a merch for this,
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah, templating my nice standalones,
but it's okay.
Floantage of Kai.
Let me get my current build stable,
merge it, and then I'm going to merge
your PR.
I wanted this so much, man.
Yeah, this is going to be good.
It's going to be a slightly awkward
merge, I think.
Tell me though, speed anything. I mean,
you probably It's not expected to do a
ton on Breakout like it's for bigger
networks though. Actually, hey Jonah,
one thing you can try real quick, uh,
bump the hidden size on Breakout to like
512 and then try with BF-16 versus with,
um, float 32s. See if it help. See if
that makes a difference.
5 to 10%. But is it 5 to 10% on um on
128 size or like did you try on 512?
See if you up the hidden size to 512. So
basically I'd expect BF16 to make a
bigger difference the bigger the
networks get
which is super important because then it
would mean that we're shipping at least
one feature that improves um big net
speed a lot as well, right?
messaging on Discord. One moment.
Testing both on Firefall.
I think this should be reasonably good.
This just needs a board deck.
Sure.
Little shenanigans.
Uh, that's bad.
That's kind of fine though. It just does
that.
So much crap.
Okay, so that was bad
Now the binding gets compiled with it.
That doesn't make sense.
No,
bad
Yes.
Yes, that is what we
not what we want.
Maybe have the structure wrong.
Oh, we have results. How did
contributing new M cell buffer?
Good question. Not a new question.
So, uh, nobody in the world can predict
how useful a new end is going to be.
Let me give you some examples.
2048. This ended up being a ludicrously
useful research environment. All right,
it ended up being very very difficult
and scaling well. Tetris medium
complexity and that's really awesome to
watch. Breakout turns out to be uh the
simplest possible environment that's
still a pretty good predictor of whether
your thing is working and is going to
work on other ends. Snake very nice
simple and fast multi-agent environment.
slime volley very good starting point
for selfplay research right like lots
and lots of these ends end up being
useful um which is why we port all of
them and we essentially track progress
on all the different M's and you know
the goal is that we're doing better on
all the M's in Puffer 4 than we are in
Puffer 3 different M's expose different
bottlenecks it's essentially like you're
writing a whole bunch of test cases but
instead of it being like a boring
you're actually writing a cool demo for
our agents to solve.
Plus, it's a great way to learn and uh
this is oftenimes how people learn and
get involved in the algorithmic side and
stuff if they're new to RL.
Wait at 512 hidden size 3 mil SPS 16 2
mil FP32.
Oo
yeah. So run pod can be sketch.
Okay. So I will test it. But if we get
like 50% off of the bigger nets, you
have done some awesome work for us.
That's awesome.
Let me unfuck our uh end findings and
then we will see if I can get your thing
merged before I am falling asleep
because this is now well over 20 hours
dreamed in the last two days
like good BF16 is so useful man
you know why
Like
because this is going to give us
something that when we scaled our bigger
networks, it'll be kind of disappointing
if we only get 20% perf or something,
right, on our bigger networks because
the overhead wasn't as big of a factor.
Like we'll still get some perf benefit
on everything, but would be kind of
disappointing if I did all this work
just for the smaller nets. But because
we have the custom kernels where we
actually keep the ops in FP32,
uh we can actually control control our
numerical stability way more than we can
with torch and BF32 uh BF16. So like I
think this is just way better overall.
I do hate the fact that it means that
we'll have to keep the templating.
Does everything support BF-16 though?
Like I can't just keep the BF16
implementation, right?
Cuz not everything
sketchy.
I don't know.
Template is templating is so annoying.
We have like thousands of lines of
binding code.
like only use BF. Yeah, I don't think we
can do that. I think actually, you know,
the other thing I was trying to ask um
Oh, I assume the more complex would be
the more useful. That is also true,
provided they're fast. You have to be
quite a good dev to make a good complex
M though. Um
I
interesting
keeps DT type specific does it in a
really gross way with a macro that gives
you absolutely terrible compile messages
when you do anything wrong though.
I'm wondering if we can do the other
thing I didn't know right is whether we
could have um CPU back end without
having to duplicate all the code.
I don't know about that as well.
There's some stuff that we need to like
get set up correctly.
But hey, we're getting all the perf at
least.
Hello there.
It's nice.
Thanks.
How fast is it? I wonder
doesn't learn
It's good.
Well, we have all the bindings.
Let's make a commit.
I'm doing this manually so I don't screw
it up.
do it. Yes, that did it.
Okay. So, let's do this. Let's merge the
PR.
Let's merge the be PR. I'm calling it a
night.
Where the heck is the um
Oh.
Huh.
I know what happened.
Yeah, I see what happened.
There we go.
See if this works.
Yo, this is uh
My All right.
Oh, it's definitely faster
or 10% faster.
What happens if we do uh
If we do this,
isn't it great when we get new
contributors that just like come up in a
rock ship?
That's great.
2.4.
Oh man, you cooked this. Yeah. Holy
[__]
All right.
The uh the 20our 21 hour stream day last
two days was worth it. This kicks ass.
Near damn double speed up. Holy crap.
So, let's just put this into
perspective. Okay, so we got four mil
SPS, right?
Um,
so if we were being fair in flops,
it's quadratic. So, um,
4 * 16 is 64. So that's like the
equivalent of 64 mil FPS worth of flops
for the smaller nets.
Dude, you got this so damn good. Holy
Does this work?
I'm getting a beer or whatever after
this and calling it a night. Holy crap,
guys.
Oh,
three seging.
Can I try?
How am I supposed to test my ridiculous
new thing?
Ah, this is bad.
I want to test nurmo 3.
That's not on you. I doubt it cuz I
tried it without the be float. This is
probably on my port, dude.
It's making the wrong number of M's. I
can see it right here.
You and Peru just both mega kicked ass.
Like just
it's like just show up and kick ass.
Holy
That's awesome.
It doesn't have a shared net or
anything.
Numb agents.
What has been accomplished this evening
stream?
Fixed a bunch of tests, got all the new
static binds uh ported over and Jonah
just uh submitted us an absolute
kick-ass bloat 16 PR that has us to 13
million steps per second training. But
but the real kicker is for big nets, it
makes big net training almost twice as
fast.
So not only is Puffer 4 now going to be
faster for small nets, you're going to
just get like a straight 2x on a lot of
the bigger nets, too.
We just tested with 512.
The benefit will be bigger for larger
networks.
But then again, all the other stuff in
Puffer will be better for smaller
networks. So you get faster, you get
faster, you get faster. All of y'all get
faster.
How would you define big versus small?
Uh so most of our optimizations
like in puffer most of the puffer uh the
puffer 4 optimizations are going to be
for nets like below 2 mil params or
whatever. This will let it scale like
this will be good for nets 1 mil per and
up. So there will be overlap
roughly.
I don't know. We just got the PR,
No, not aim for You don't have to aim
for anything. That's the point, man. You
don't have to aim for anything. Like
what happens is you sweep everything and
everything is faster. So now the optimum
is going to be like there's a ton of new
configurations that will now be
efficient
FC relu. Uh, so I wouldn't get too nerd
sniped by those man because So what that
is, that's an experimental thing because
that's an experimental thing that's for
one environment because
they have this weird pointwise encoder
and pointwise encoder encoders just
materialize a ton of memory. Also, that
n isn't even stable yet. So, we're not
going to be able to fully test like
architecturally whether that even works.
So, I wouldn't spend a ton of time on
that yet.
I have a quick question for you. Do you
think that we can make CPU fallbacks for
these kernels without making a mess of
everything? Like could we just copy the
entire inner loop of the kernel into an
inline function and then call it from uh
CUDA or call it from C? Like does that
make sense or no?
Cuz
right now with Puffer 4, like all our
new stuff will just be it like won't
even work if you're not training on GPU,
which is I think okay. Not great, but
like okay.
I mean, realistically, we have stuff
fast enough now that like if we bothered
putting a fallback in, people would
probably be able to train at a mill SPS
on CPU now.
Why not just run the torch functions?
Yeah, I think that that's that's the
other option, right? is we just say you
just use the default torch.
It's kind of dumb to care about Perf, I
suppose, on CPU. So,
if there's not an easy way to have it
just be the same code for both, that's
probably the play.
Why not sweep and see? Isn't sweep just
train in a loop? No, Jess, there's
additional Gaussian process crap.
Go look at the file. You'll see it.
All right, I see
Faster sweeps the better.
1 mil on CPU. Yeah, but I don't know how
much of a pain it is. If it's going to
mess up the library, it's not worth
doing.
I'm only just getting into RL. The idea
of a hierarchical RL seems so
intuitively.
Okay. So, you need you really should
read my guide. Um, there are a ton of
topics in RL where if you just start
reading papers, like everything is going
to sound like it's really cool and works
and then nothing actually works in
practice. Hierarchical RL is one of
those. Exploration is another one of
those. Um, a lot of the metalarning
stuff is like that.
So, you got to be a little careful with
that.
So this is the thing that like it takes
a little bit more time to learn not like
engineering stuff is the lit quality
thing.
Oh,
that got farther.
logic for multi- aents is totally [__]
up. This is why you don't let stupid
language models [__] with your crucial
code.
You Okay.
I'm just going to send this in a sec.
really.
Well, that's super annoying, but it's
late. I've been streaming um yep, plenty
long. Um let's at least commit this.
We can still do breakout, right?
I have to start going through manually
tomorrow.
That still works. 13 mil
13 mil SPF.
All
right, folks. I'm getting myself a glass
of wine. I'm taking a bit of time to
chill. I'll be back first thing tomorrow
morning. I'm streaming all day. And uh
in the evening, I'm playing some games
with a bunch of RL researcher friends.
and we might decide to even stream it
for the hell of it. So, uh,
all day back tomorrow, we're going to
fix all the end bindings. We're going to
try to get all the MS to be sane. We're
going to try to get actually many
different things training. And I'm going
to try to avoid getting put into more
rabbit holes. Jonah, you've kicked ass
today. Peru, you've kicked ass today.
Thank you all. If you want to help me
out for absolutely free while I'm
busting my ass here on open source
puffer hungry eat stars feed puffer star
on GitHub free click a button
when this number is officially 5k we get
to celebrate or something I don't know
uh other than that
discord link if you want to get involved
great place to learn Follow an X.